Docs: Add model selection guide (#1818)
TobikoData/sqlmesh: docs/guides/model_selection.md

```

### Backfill examples

#### No backfill selection

Recall that a plan with no selection or backfill options includes all four models, two of which were directly and two of which were indirectly modified.

The `--backfill-model` option does not affect whether a model is included in a plan (i.e., it will still appear in the output shown in the selection examples above). Instead, it determines whether a model is included in the list of models needing backfill (shown at the bottom of the plan's output).

With no options specified, the `plan` will backfill all six models. The backfills occur in the `sushi__dev` schema because we are creating a plan for the `dev` environment:

```bash
❯ sqlmesh plan dev

< output omitted>

Models needing backfill (missing dates):
├── sushi__dev.items: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
├── sushi__dev.order_items: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
├── sushi__dev.customer_revenue_by_day: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
├── sushi__dev.customer_revenue_lifetime: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
├── sushi__dev.waiter_revenue_by_day: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
└── sushi__dev.top_waiters: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
```

#### Backfill `sushi.waiter_revenue_by_day`

> If we specify the `--backfill-model` option with `"sushi.waiter_revenue_by_day"`, there are fewer models in the backfills list:

Reviewer: I'd add a note along the lines of:

> Note that models that are upstream from those selected in the `--backfill-model` expressions are always include regardless of whether the expression contains a leading `+` sign.

Author: Good call

> 1. The directly modified `sushi__dev.items` and `sushi__dev.order_items` models are still included because they are upstream of `sushi.waiter_revenue_by_day`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `sushi__dev.items` and `sushi__dev.order_items` models are still included because they are upstream of `sushi.waiter_revenue_by_day`
```

Reviewer: I think whether they are directly modified is besides the point

> 2. The indirectly modified `sushi.customer_revenue_by_day`, `sushi.customer_revenue_lifetime`, and `sushi.top_waiters` models are excluded because they are not upstream of `sushi.waiter_revenue_by_day`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `sushi.customer_revenue_by_day`, `sushi.customer_revenue_lifetime`, and `sushi.top_waiters` models are excluded because they are not upstream of `sushi.waiter_revenue_by_day`
```

Reviewer: ditto

```bash
❯ sqlmesh plan dev --select-model "sushi.*items"
Summary of differences against `dev`:
Models:
├── Directly Modified:
│   ├── sushi.order_items
│   └── sushi.items
└── Indirectly Modified:
    ├── sushi.waiter_revenue_by_day
    ├── sushi.top_waiters
    ├── sushi.customer_revenue_by_day
    └── sushi.customer_revenue_lifetime
```

### Backfill examples

#### No backfill selection

Recall that a plan with no selection or backfill options includes all four models, two of which were directly and two of which were indirectly modified.

The `--backfill-model` option does not affect whether a model is included in a plan (i.e., it will still appear in the output shown in the selection examples above). Instead, it is excluded from the list of models needing backfill at the bottom of the plan's output.

With no options specified, the `plan` will backfill all six models. The backfills occur in the `sushi__dev` schema because we are creating a plan for the `dev` environment:

```bash hl_lines="16 17 21 24"
❯ sqlmesh plan dev

> Summary of differences against `dev`:

Reviewer: I'd say we should remove the `Summary of differences against` section from this section and the next one and just let user focus on `Models needing backfill`. Otherwise it's a little distracting and unclear what to pay attention at.

Models:
├── Directly Modified:
│   ├── sushi.items
│   └── sushi.order_items
└── Indirectly Modified:
    ├── sushi.customer_revenue_by_day
    ├── sushi.customer_revenue_lifetime
    ├── sushi.waiter_revenue_by_day
    └── sushi.top_waiters

< output omitted>

Models needing backfill (missing dates):
├── sushi__dev.items: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
├── sushi__dev.order_items: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
├── sushi__dev.customer_revenue_by_day: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
├── sushi__dev.customer_revenue_lifetime: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
├── sushi__dev.waiter_revenue_by_day: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
└── sushi__dev.top_waiters: 2023-12-01 - 2023-12-07
```

#### Backfill `sushi.waiter_revenue_by_day`

> If we specify the `--backfill-model` option with `"sushi.waiter_revenue_by_day"`, two things happen:

Reviewer: We should clarify that the reason why `items` and `order_items` have been included is because they are upstream from `waiter_revenue_by_day` and `--backfill-model` **always** includes upstream regardless of whether a leading `+` was specified in the selection expression.

# Model Selection Guide

This guide describes how to select specific models to include in a SQLMesh plan, which can be useful when modifying a subset of the models in a SQLMesh project.

## Background

A SQLMesh [plan](../concepts/plans.md) automatically detects changes between the local version of a project and the version deployed in an environment. When applied, the plan backfills the directly modified models and their indirectly modified downstream children. This brings all model data into alignment with the local version of the project.

In large SQLMesh projects, a single model change may impact many downstream models, such that evaluating it and its affected children takes a significant amount of time. In some situations, a user is blocked by the long run time and can accomplish their task without backfilling all changed models and affected children.

> SQLMesh model selection allows you to filter a plan's directly changed models to only the ones necessary to accomplish your task. This can be useful when you only need to inspect the results of some of the model changes you have made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SQLMesh model selection allows you to filter which direct model changes should be included into a plan. This can be useful when you only need to inspect the results of some of the model changes you have made.
```

└── Indirectly Modified:
    ├── sushi.marketing
    ├── sushi.customers
    └── sushi.waiter_as_customer_by_day
```

#### Select `raw_marketing+`

If we specify the `--select-model` option with the downstream `+` to select `"sushi.raw_marketing+"`, the `sushi.marketing` model is selected and classified as directly modified because it is downstream of `sushi.raw_marketing`:

```bash
❯ sqlmesh plan dev --select-model "sushi.raw_marketing+"
Summary of differences against `dev`:
Models:
├── Directly Modified:
│   ├── sushi.marketing
│   └── sushi.raw_marketing
└── Indirectly Modified:
    ├── sushi.waiter_as_customer_by_day
    └── sushi.customers
```

#### Select `*marketing`

If we specify the `--select-model` option with the wildcard `*` to select `"sushi.*marketing"`, both `sushi.raw_marketing` and `sushi.marketing` are selected because they match the wildcard:

```bash
❯ sqlmesh plan dev --select-model "sushi.*marketing"
Summary of differences against `dev`:
Models:
├── Directly Modified:
│   ├── sushi.raw_marketing
│   └── sushi.marketing
└── Indirectly Modified:
    ├── sushi.waiter_as_customer_by_day
    └── sushi.customers
```

### Backfill examples

> #### No backfill

Reviewer: Why is this called `no backfill`?
